- [Instructor] As a first step to connect the user
and the Order services as we recapped in the previous video,
that'll be to write the gRPC Java client
for the Order service.
So let's head back to the IDE.
And I will first add a package here,
for our client classes.
And under that I will create a class called OrderClient.
What do we need to do here?
We first need to get a stub object,
which will help you make either a blocking
or an asynchronous call to the service method.
We're going to go ahead with a simple blocking call.
So we need to get that stub.
And next step will be to call the service method.
These are the two things that we will need to do
as a part of this class.
But just to add a note here,
when we get a stub object,
we first need to get the HTTP/2 connection to the server
that has to be set up first.
So if you recall from a previous modules,
we've known that whenever you want to establish
an endpoint connection to the server side,
you basically open a channel.
So the channel opens, then you get the stub,
and then you call the method.
That is typically the cycle.
So let's go ahead and first grab the stub.
And call the service method as a part of OrderClient.
And we will see how the channel gets tied up with the flow.
So the first thing is,
let's take an instance variable for the stub.
So that will be this one.
Inside the OrderServiceGrpc,
you have a class called OrderServiceBlockingStub
which will help you grab the variable for it.
That's what we need.
The next thing you're going to do is,
we're going to write a constructor
of the OrderClient class.
I think this led to an import
which we do not need right now,
on line number three.
So I'm going to delete that.
Okay.
Let's come back to the constructor.
Okay, now in this,
we're going to have a parameter to the constructor.
Firstly, which is channel,
which is io.grpc package.
And once we have that parameter,
what we will do is we'll take the variable
that we declared on line number 10,
take the service class again,
and inside that,
there is a method called newBlockingStub.
So this is the one that we are going to grab
in order to make the calls to the service method.
And this internally asks for that channel as an argument.
So we will feed that.
Let's delete rest of the lines
and format the code correctly.
Right.
So first part is done.
And we will get to how this channel
is going to be passed to the order line.
Do not worry about that right now.
You're going to see it further.
The next step, as we said, is to write a method,
to call the Order service.
So let's do that.
Type public.
This will be a list of orders that we want from the service.
And this list,
let's first import that,
java.util.
And this will be the stub object,
which is coming from the proto file,
which is this order.
Let's say, getOrders.
This should take a userId.
The implementation of this method will be very simple.
First thing is we need to get a request object.
Again, let's use the builder to do that.
And do that, set the user ID,
which is coming in from the parameter.
And let's build this object.
Since we are inside the client,
we will need to build the request object first
before we make the call to the service method.
Then the next line will be,
you have to grab that stub
and make a call to that service method,
with this getOrdersForUser
and it demands the request object.
So feed that request object to it as an argument.
The output of this will be an OrderResponse.
Collect that into the corresponding variable,
which is orderResponse.
And after that, the simple thing that we're going to do is,
we're just going to extract the list of orders
from that orderResponse,
and return it from this method.
So, that's what we have.
Let's just format this code correctly.
Yeah.
So the two things that we did,
we grabbed the stub,
instantiated the stub by using the service class.
There's a method called newBlockingStub on it.
That requires a channel to be passed.
We did that.
And then we wrote a method.
Simple, which will create or build the request object
and it'll call the getOrdersForUser method
of the Order service.
That is all that we have to do as a part of the client.
The next video will explain to us
how are we going to tie up that channel to this stub.